plugins/woocommerce-blocks/docs/contributors/folder-structure.md, before:

# Folder Structure

The following snippet explains how the WooCommerce Blocks repository is structured omitting irrelevant or obvious items with further explanations:

```text
│
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
├── .github/CODEOWNERS
├── .github/CODE*OF_CONDUCT.md
├── .github/CONTRIBUTING.md
├── .github/SECURITY.md
│
├── .distignore
├── .editorconfig
├── .eslintignore
├── .eslintrc
├── .gitattributes
├── .gitignore
├── .prettierrc.js
├── .stylelintrc.json
├── phpcs.xml.dist
│ Dot files and config files used to configure the various linting tools
│ used in the repository (PHP, JS, styles...).
│
├── .nvmrc
│ Required Node version of the project.
│
├── babel.config.js
├── global.d.ts
├── tsconfig.base.json
├── tsconfig.json
├── webpack.config.js
│ Transpilation and bundling config files.
│
├── phpcs.xml
│ Config file for the PHP Coding Standards.
│
├── phpunit.xml.dist
│ Config file for PHPUnit.
│
├── postcss.config.js
│ Config file for PostCSS.
│
├── renovate.json
│ Config file for Renovate.
│
├── docker-compose.yml
│ Docker config files for the development and testing environment.
│
├── .env
├── .wp-env.json
│ Config files for the development and testing environment.
│ Includes WordPress, the WooCommerce plugin and the Storefront theme.
│
├── composer.lock
├── composer.json
│ Handling of PHP dependencies. Used for development tools and autoloading.
│
├── package-lock.json
├── package.json
│ Handling of JavaScript dependencies. Both for development tools and
│ production dependencies. The package.json also serves to define common
| tasks and scripts used for day to day development.
│
├── readme.txt
│ Readme of the WooCommerce Blocks plugin hosted on the WordPress
│ plugin repository.
│
├── woocommerce-gutenberg-products-block.php
│ Entry point of the WooCommerce Blocks plugin.
│
├── .github/*
│ Config of the different Github features (issues and PR templates, CI,
│ owners).
│
├── .sources/_
│ Sketch files of the WooCommerce Blocks plugin.
│
├── .wordpress-org/_
│ Assets of the WooCommerce Blocks plugin hosted on the WordPress plugin
│ repository.
│
├── assets/css/_
│ The SCSS files of the WooCommerce Blocks plugin.
│
├── assets/js/_
│ The React components of the WooCommerce Blocks plugin.
│
├── assets/js/atomic
│ The atomic components such as product title, product rating, product
│ image, etc. These atomic components are used by the product blocks.
│
├── assets/js/base
│ Base contains components specific to the frontend of the store.
│ Components placed here avoid loading larger Gutenberg dependencies to
│ keep client script sizes to a minimum.
│
├── assets/js/blocks-registry
│ Files that allows developers to connect their extensions to this plugin.
│
├── assets/js/blocks
│ The main blocks of the WooCommerce Blocks plugin such as the Active
│ Filters Block.
│
├── assets/js/data
│ Functionality to store data using Redux and wp.data.
│
├── assets/js/editor-components
│ Editor components such as the block-title component.
│
├── assets/js/extensions
│ TypeScript files to allow Google Analytics tracking of specific events
│ such as active payment method and removing cart items.
│
├── assets/js/filters
│ Filter such as excluding the checkout draft from Google Analytics.
│
├── assets/js/hocs
│ The Higher Order Components of the WooCommerce Blocks plugin.
│
├── assets/js/icons
│ The WooCommerce Blocks Icon library.
│
├── assets/js/middleware
│ The middleware code to handle Store API calls.
│
├── assets/js/payment-method-extensions
│ Functionality for the payment options such as PayPal.
│
├── assets/js/previews
│ The previews of various components such the All Products Block.
│
├── assets/js/settings
│ Functionality to view the settings in the frontend.
│
├── assets/js/shared
│ Shared components of the WooCommerce Blocks plugin.
│
├── assets/js/types
│ TypeScript definitions of the WooCommerce Blocks plugin.
│
├── assets/js/utils
│ Shared utilities of the WooCommerce Blocks plugin.
│
├── bin/\_
│ Set of scripts used to build the WordPress packages.
│
├── docs/\*
│ Set of documentation pages of the WooCommerce Blocks plugin.
│
├── images
│ Images for the payment options and the previews.
│
├── packages
│ Things that are likely to be published as npm packages in the future. Packages can be:
│ - Production JavaScript scripts and styles loaded on WordPress
│ and the WooCommerce Blocks plugin or distributed as npm packages.
│ - Development tools available on npm.
│
├── patches
│ Patches for 3rd party scripts applied when installing dependencies.
│
├── src
│ The core PHP files of the WooCommerce Blocks plugin.
│
├── storybook
│ Config of the [WooCommerce Blocks Storybook](https://woocommerce.github.io/woocommerce-gutenberg-products-block/).
│
├── templates/emails
│ Email templates of the WooCommerce Blocks plugin.
│
├── tests/e2e
│ Set of end-to-end tests.
│
├── tests/js
│ Configuration for Jest.
│
├── tests/php
│ Configuration for the PHP unit tests
│
├── tests/utils
│ Utilities for the test cases.
│
```

## Credits

This file is inspired by the great work of @JustinyAhin and @gziolo in <https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/trunk/docs/contributors/folder-structure.md>.

<!-- FEEDBACK -->

---

[We're hiring!](https://woocommerce.com/careers/) Come work with us!

🐞 Found a mistake, or have a suggestion? [Leave feedback about this document here.](https://github.com/woocommerce/woocommerce/issues/new?assignees=&labels=type%3A+documentation&template=suggestion-for-documentation-improvement-correction.md&title=Feedback%20on%20./docs/contributors/folder-structure.md)

<!-- /FEEDBACK -->

Commit message:

Automated sync and customization of PooCommerce

plugins/woocommerce-blocks/docs/contributors/folder-structure.md, after:

# Folder Structure

The following snippet explains how the PooCommerce Blocks repository is structured omitting irrelevant or obvious items with further explanations:

```text
│
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
├── .github/CODEOWNERS
├── .github/CODE*OF_CONDUCT.md
├── .github/CONTRIBUTING.md
├── .github/SECURITY.md
│
├── .distignore
├── .editorconfig
├── .eslintignore
├── .eslintrc
├── .gitattributes
├── .gitignore
├── .prettierrc.js
├── .stylelintrc.json
├── phpcs.xml.dist
│ Dot files and config files used to configure the various linting tools
│ used in the repository (PHP, JS, styles...).
│
├── .nvmrc
│ Required Node version of the project.
│
├── babel.config.js
├── global.d.ts
├── tsconfig.base.json
├── tsconfig.json
├── webpack.config.js
│ Transpilation and bundling config files.
│
├── phpcs.xml
│ Config file for the PHP Coding Standards.
│
├── phpunit.xml.dist
│ Config file for PHPUnit.
│
├── postcss.config.js
│ Config file for PostCSS.
│
├── renovate.json
│ Config file for Renovate.
│
├── docker-compose.yml
│ Docker config files for the development and testing environment.
│
├── .env
├── .wp-env.json
│ Config files for the development and testing environment.
│ Includes WordPress, the PooCommerce plugin and the Storefront theme.
│
├── composer.lock
├── composer.json
│ Handling of PHP dependencies. Used for development tools and autoloading.
│
├── package-lock.json
├── package.json
│ Handling of JavaScript dependencies. Both for development tools and
│ production dependencies. The package.json also serves to define common
| tasks and scripts used for day to day development.
│
├── readme.txt
│ Readme of the PooCommerce Blocks plugin hosted on the WordPress
│ plugin repository.
│
├── poocommerce-gutenberg-products-block.php
│ Entry point of the PooCommerce Blocks plugin.
│
├── .github/*
│ Config of the different Github features (issues and PR templates, CI,
│ owners).
│
├── .sources/_
│ Sketch files of the PooCommerce Blocks plugin.
│
├── .wordpress-org/_
│ Assets of the PooCommerce Blocks plugin hosted on the WordPress plugin
│ repository.
│
├── assets/css/_
│ The SCSS files of the PooCommerce Blocks plugin.
│
├── assets/js/_
│ The React components of the PooCommerce Blocks plugin.
│
├── assets/js/atomic
│ The atomic components such as product title, product rating, product
│ image, etc. These atomic components are used by the product blocks.
│
├── assets/js/base
│ Base contains components specific to the frontend of the store.
│ Components placed here avoid loading larger Gutenberg dependencies to
│ keep client script sizes to a minimum.
│
├── assets/js/blocks-registry
│ Files that allows developers to connect their extensions to this plugin.
│
├── assets/js/blocks
│ The main blocks of the PooCommerce Blocks plugin such as the Active
│ Filters Block.
│
├── assets/js/data
│ Functionality to store data using Redux and wp.data.
│
├── assets/js/editor-components
│ Editor components such as the block-title component.
│
├── assets/js/extensions
│ TypeScript files to allow Google Analytics tracking of specific events
│ such as active payment method and removing cart items.
│
├── assets/js/filters
│ Filter such as excluding the checkout draft from Google Analytics.
│
├── assets/js/hocs
│ The Higher Order Components of the PooCommerce Blocks plugin.
│
├── assets/js/icons
│ The PooCommerce Blocks Icon library.
│
├── assets/js/middleware
│ The middleware code to handle Store API calls.
│
├── assets/js/payment-method-extensions
│ Functionality for the payment options such as PayPal.
│
├── assets/js/previews
│ The previews of various components such the All Products Block.
│
├── assets/js/settings
│ Functionality to view the settings in the frontend.
│
├── assets/js/shared
│ Shared components of the PooCommerce Blocks plugin.
│
├── assets/js/types
│ TypeScript definitions of the PooCommerce Blocks plugin.
│
├── assets/js/utils
│ Shared utilities of the PooCommerce Blocks plugin.
│
├── bin/\_
│ Set of scripts used to build the WordPress packages.
│
├── docs/\*
│ Set of documentation pages of the PooCommerce Blocks plugin.
│
├── images
│ Images for the payment options and the previews.
│
├── packages
│ Things that are likely to be published as npm packages in the future. Packages can be:
│ - Production JavaScript scripts and styles loaded on WordPress
│ and the PooCommerce Blocks plugin or distributed as npm packages.
│ - Development tools available on npm.
│
├── patches
│ Patches for 3rd party scripts applied when installing dependencies.
│
├── src
│ The core PHP files of the PooCommerce Blocks plugin.
│
├── storybook
│ Config of the [PooCommerce Blocks Storybook](https://poocommerce.github.io/poocommerce-gutenberg-products-block/).
│
├── templates/emails
│ Email templates of the PooCommerce Blocks plugin.
│
├── tests/e2e
│ Set of end-to-end tests.
│
├── tests/js
│ Configuration for Jest.
│
├── tests/php
│ Configuration for the PHP unit tests
│
├── tests/utils
│ Utilities for the test cases.
│
```

## Credits

This file is inspired by the great work of @JustinyAhin and @gziolo in <https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/trunk/docs/contributors/folder-structure.md>.

<!-- FEEDBACK -->

---

[We're hiring!](https://poocommerce.com/careers/) Come work with us!

🐞 Found a mistake, or have a suggestion? [Leave feedback about this document here.](https://github.com/poocommerce/poocommerce/issues/new?assignees=&labels=type%3A+documentation&template=suggestion-for-documentation-improvement-correction.md&title=Feedback%20on%20./docs/contributors/folder-structure.md)

<!-- /FEEDBACK -->
