plugins/woocommerce-blocks/packages/checkout/README.md, before:

# Checkout <!-- omit in toc -->

## Table of Contents <!-- omit in toc -->

-   [Installation](#installation)
-   [Usage](#usage)
    -   [Aliased imports](#aliased-imports)
-   [Folder Structure Overview](#folder-structure-overview)

Components and utilities making it possible to integrate with the WooCommerce Mini-Cart, Cart and Checkout Blocks.

## Installation

This package is available as an external when the [WooCommerce Blocks Feature Plugin](https://wordpress.org/plugins/woo-gutenberg-products-block/) is installed and activated.

## Usage

Package components can be accessed via the `wc` global:

```js
const { ... } = wc.blocksCheckout;
```

### Aliased imports

Alternatively, you can map this to externals (or aliases) using the [WooCommerce Dependency Extraction Webpack Plugin](https://github.com/woocommerce/woocommerce-admin/tree/main/packages/dependency-extraction-webpack-plugin). Just add the above Webpack plugin to your package.json:

```bash
npm install @woocommerce/dependency-extraction-webpack-plugin --save-dev
```

Now, you can include this plugin in your Webpack configuration:

```js
// webpack.config.js
const WooCommerceDependencyExtractionWebpackPlugin = require( '@woocommerce/dependency-extraction-webpack-plugin' );

module.exports = {
	// …snip
	plugins: [ new WooCommerceDependencyExtractionWebpackPlugin() ],
};
```

## Folder Structure Overview

This package contains the following directories. Navigate to a directory for more in depth documentation about each module.

| Directory                               | Contents                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| :-------------------------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`blocks-registry/`](./blocks-registry) | Used to **register new Inner Blocks** that can be inserted either automatically or optionally within the Checkout Block. _**Example use case:** Creating a newsletter subscription block on the Checkout._                                                                                                             |
| [`components/`](./components)           | Components available for use by Checkout Blocks.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| [`filter-registry/`](./filter-registry) | Used to **manipulate content** where filters are available. _**Example use case:** Changing how prices are displayed._ ([Documentation](./filter-registry))                                                                                                                                                            |
| [`slot/`](./slot)                       | Slot and Fill are a pair of components which enable developers to render in a React element tree. In this context, they are used to **insert content within Blocks** where slot fills are available. _**Example use case:** Adding a custom component after the shipping options._ ([Documentation](./slot/README.md)) |
| [`utils/`](./utils)                     | Miscellaneous utility functions for dealing with checkout functionality.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |

<!-- FEEDBACK -->

---

[We're hiring!](https://woocommerce.com/careers/) Come work with us!

🐞 Found a mistake, or have a suggestion? [Leave feedback about this document here.](https://github.com/woocommerce/woocommerce/issues/new?assignees=&labels=type%3A+documentation&template=suggestion-for-documentation-improvement-correction.md&title=Feedback%20on%20./packages/checkout/README.md)

<!-- /FEEDBACK -->

Commit message:

Automated sync and customization of PooCommerce

plugins/woocommerce-blocks/packages/checkout/README.md, after:

# Checkout <!-- omit in toc -->

## Table of Contents <!-- omit in toc -->

-   [Installation](#installation)
-   [Usage](#usage)
    -   [Aliased imports](#aliased-imports)
-   [Folder Structure Overview](#folder-structure-overview)

Components and utilities making it possible to integrate with the PooCommerce Mini-Cart, Cart and Checkout Blocks.

## Installation

This package is available as an external when the [PooCommerce Blocks Feature Plugin](https://wordpress.org/plugins/woo-gutenberg-products-block/) is installed and activated.

## Usage

Package components can be accessed via the `wc` global:

```js
const { ... } = wc.blocksCheckout;
```

### Aliased imports

Alternatively, you can map this to externals (or aliases) using the [PooCommerce Dependency Extraction Webpack Plugin](https://github.com/poocommerce/poocommerce-admin/tree/main/packages/dependency-extraction-webpack-plugin). Just add the above Webpack plugin to your package.json:

```bash
npm install @poocommerce/dependency-extraction-webpack-plugin --save-dev
```

Now, you can include this plugin in your Webpack configuration:

```js
// webpack.config.js
const PooCommerceDependencyExtractionWebpackPlugin = require( '@poocommerce/dependency-extraction-webpack-plugin' );

module.exports = {
	// …snip
	plugins: [ new PooCommerceDependencyExtractionWebpackPlugin() ],
};
```

## Folder Structure Overview

This package contains the following directories. Navigate to a directory for more in depth documentation about each module.

| Directory                               | Contents                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| :-------------------------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`blocks-registry/`](./blocks-registry) | Used to **register new Inner Blocks** that can be inserted either automatically or optionally within the Checkout Block. _**Example use case:** Creating a newsletter subscription block on the Checkout._                                                                                                             |
| [`components/`](./components)           | Components available for use by Checkout Blocks.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| [`filter-registry/`](./filter-registry) | Used to **manipulate content** where filters are available. _**Example use case:** Changing how prices are displayed._ ([Documentation](./filter-registry))                                                                                                                                                            |
| [`slot/`](./slot)                       | Slot and Fill are a pair of components which enable developers to render in a React element tree. In this context, they are used to **insert content within Blocks** where slot fills are available. _**Example use case:** Adding a custom component after the shipping options._ ([Documentation](./slot/README.md)) |
| [`utils/`](./utils)                     | Miscellaneous utility functions for dealing with checkout functionality.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |

<!-- FEEDBACK -->

---

[We're hiring!](https://poocommerce.com/careers/) Come work with us!

🐞 Found a mistake, or have a suggestion? [Leave feedback about this document here.](https://github.com/poocommerce/poocommerce/issues/new?assignees=&labels=type%3A+documentation&template=suggestion-for-documentation-improvement-correction.md&title=Feedback%20on%20./packages/checkout/README.md)

<!-- /FEEDBACK -->
