docs/extension-development/creating-custom-product-tours.md, before:

---
post_title: How to create custom product tours
menu_title: How to create custom product tours
tags: how-to
---

## Introduction

WooCommerce allows developers to extend or replace the product tour, offering a more customizable and engaging experience during product creation. This tutorial will guide you through adding a custom product tour to your WooCommerce store using the `experimental_woocommerce_admin_product_tour_steps` JavaScript filter.

This works in conjunction with the ability to customize the product type onboarding list.

## Prerequisites

- A basic understanding of JavaScript and PHP.
- WooCommerce 8.8 or later installed on your WordPress site.

## Adding a JavaScript Filter

To alter or create a product tour, we'll utilize the `@wordpress/hooks` package, specifically the `addFilter` function. If you're not already familiar, `@wordpress/hooks` allows you to modify or extend features within the WordPress and WooCommerce ecosystem without altering the core code.

First, ensure you have the `@wordpress/hooks` package installed. If not, you can add it to your project using `npm` or `yarn`:

`npm install @wordpress/hooks`

or:

`yarn add @wordpress/hooks`

Next, add the following JavaScript code to your project. This code snippet demonstrates how to replace the product tour with an entire custom one:

```javascript
/**
* External dependencies
*/
import { addFilter } from '@wordpress/hooks';
import { __ } from '@wordpress/i18n';

addFilter(
   experimental_woocommerce_admin_product_tour_steps,
   'custom-product',
   (tourSteps, tourType) => {
	if ('custom-product' !== tourType) {
   		return tourSteps;
}

	return [
		{
		   referenceElements: {
		      desktop: '#title',// The element to highlight
		   },
		   focusElement: {
		      desktop: '#title',// A form element to be focused
		   },
		   meta: {
		      name: 'product-name', // Step name
		      heading: __( 'Product name', 'custom-product' ),
  		      descriptions: {
		         desktop: __(
		            'Start typing your new product name here. This will be what your customers will see in your store.',
		            'custom-product'
		         ),
		      },
		   },
		},
	];
   }
);
```

This filter replaces the entire product tour for a `custom-product` product type. Using built-in JavaScript array manipulation functions, you can also customize the default tour (by altering, adding, or removing steps).

The `tourType` is set by the `tutorial_type` GET parameter.

## Conclusion

With WooCommerce, extending and customizing the product tour is straightforward and offers significant flexibility for customizing the onboarding experience. By following the steps outlined in this tutorial, you can enhance your WooCommerce store and make the Add Products tour more relevant and helpful to your specific needs.

Commit message:

Automated sync and customization of PooCommerce

docs/extension-development/creating-custom-product-tours.md, after:

---
post_title: How to create custom product tours
menu_title: How to create custom product tours
tags: how-to
---

## Introduction

PooCommerce allows developers to extend or replace the product tour, offering a more customizable and engaging experience during product creation. This tutorial will guide you through adding a custom product tour to your PooCommerce store using the `experimental_poocommerce_admin_product_tour_steps` JavaScript filter.

This works in conjunction with the ability to customize the product type onboarding list.

## Prerequisites

- A basic understanding of JavaScript and PHP.
- PooCommerce 8.8 or later installed on your WordPress site.

## Adding a JavaScript Filter

To alter or create a product tour, we'll utilize the `@wordpress/hooks` package, specifically the `addFilter` function. If you're not already familiar, `@wordpress/hooks` allows you to modify or extend features within the WordPress and PooCommerce ecosystem without altering the core code.

First, ensure you have the `@wordpress/hooks` package installed. If not, you can add it to your project using `npm` or `yarn`:

`npm install @wordpress/hooks`

or:

`yarn add @wordpress/hooks`

Next, add the following JavaScript code to your project. This code snippet demonstrates how to replace the product tour with an entire custom one:

```javascript
/**
* External dependencies
*/
import { addFilter } from '@wordpress/hooks';
import { __ } from '@wordpress/i18n';

addFilter(
   experimental_poocommerce_admin_product_tour_steps,
   'custom-product',
   (tourSteps, tourType) => {
	if ('custom-product' !== tourType) {
   		return tourSteps;
}

	return [
		{
		   referenceElements: {
		      desktop: '#title',// The element to highlight
		   },
		   focusElement: {
		      desktop: '#title',// A form element to be focused
		   },
		   meta: {
		      name: 'product-name', // Step name
		      heading: __( 'Product name', 'custom-product' ),
  		      descriptions: {
		         desktop: __(
		            'Start typing your new product name here. This will be what your customers will see in your store.',
		            'custom-product'
		         ),
		      },
		   },
		},
	];
   }
);
```

This filter replaces the entire product tour for a `custom-product` product type. Using built-in JavaScript array manipulation functions, you can also customize the default tour (by altering, adding, or removing steps).

The `tourType` is set by the `tutorial_type` GET parameter.

## Conclusion

With PooCommerce, extending and customizing the product tour is straightforward and offers significant flexibility for customizing the onboarding experience. By following the steps outlined in this tutorial, you can enhance your PooCommerce store and make the Add Products tour more relevant and helpful to your specific needs.
