packages/js/product-editor/src/blocks/generic/checkbox/README.md, before:

# woocommerce/product-checkbox-field

A reusable checkbox for the product editor.

![Product checkbox field screenshot](https://woocommerce.files.wordpress.com/2023/09/checkbox.png)

_Please note that to persist a custom field in the product it also needs to be added to the WooCommerce REST API._

## Attributes

### title

-   **Type:** `String`
-   **Required:** `No`

Header that appears above the checkbox.

### label

-   **Type:** `String`
-   **Required:** `No`

Label that appears at the side of the checkbox.

### property

-   **Type:** `String`
-   **Required:** `Yes`

Property in which the checkbox value is stored.

### tooltip

-   **Type:** `String`
-   **Required:** `No`

Tooltip text that is shown when hovering the icon at the side of the label.

### checkedValue

-   **Type:** `String`
-   **Required:** `No`

If it is set, the checked state will be `property` === `checkedValue`. When `onChange` is fired with the checked value set to `true` then the `property` value will be set to the one stored in `checkedValue`.

This is needed for cases where the `property` type is not a `boolean`.

### uncheckedValue

-   **Type:** `String`
-   **Required:** `No`

If it is set, the unchecked state will be `property` !== `checkedValue`. When `onChange` is fired with the checked value set to `false` then the `property` value will be set to the one stored in `uncheckedValue`.

This is needed for cases where the `property` type is not a `boolean`.

## Usage

Here's an example on the code that is used for the `sold_individually` field in the Inventory section:

```php
$parent_container->add_block(
  [
    'id'         => 'product-limit-purchase',
    'blockName'  => 'woocommerce/product-checkbox-field',
    'order'      => 20,
    'attributes' => [
      'title'    => __(
        'Restrictions',
        'woocommerce'
      ),
      'label'    => __(
        'Limit purchases to 1 item per order',
        'woocommerce'
      ),
      'property' => 'sold_individually',
      'tooltip'  => __(
        'When checked, customers will be able to purchase only 1 item in a single order. This is particularly useful for items that have limited quantity, like art or handmade goods.',
        'woocommerce'
      ),
    ],
  ]
);
```

---

Here's an example that is used to toggle the product variation `status` from `publish` to `private`:

> In this case the checkbox will be checked when the variation `status === 'private'`, changing the checked state of the checkbox will toggle the `status` value from `private` to `publish` and not from `true` to `false` like in the previous example:

```php
$parent_container->add_block(
  [
    'id'         => 'product-variation-visibility',
    'blockName'  => 'woocommerce/product-checkbox-field',
    'order'      => 30,
    'attributes' => [
      'property' => 'status',
      'label'    => __( 'Hide in product catalog', 'woocommerce' ),
      'checkedValue'  => 'private',
      'uncheckedValue' => 'publish',
    ],
  ]
);
```

Commit message:

Automated sync and customization of PooCommerce

packages/js/product-editor/src/blocks/generic/checkbox/README.md, after:

# poocommerce/product-checkbox-field

A reusable checkbox for the product editor.

![Product checkbox field screenshot](https://poocommerce.files.wordpress.com/2023/09/checkbox.png)

_Please note that to persist a custom field in the product it also needs to be added to the PooCommerce REST API._

## Attributes

### title

-   **Type:** `String`
-   **Required:** `No`

Header that appears above the checkbox.

### label

-   **Type:** `String`
-   **Required:** `No`

Label that appears at the side of the checkbox.

### property

-   **Type:** `String`
-   **Required:** `Yes`

Property in which the checkbox value is stored.

### tooltip

-   **Type:** `String`
-   **Required:** `No`

Tooltip text that is shown when hovering the icon at the side of the label.

### checkedValue

-   **Type:** `String`
-   **Required:** `No`

If it is set, the checked state will be `property` === `checkedValue`. When `onChange` is fired with the checked value set to `true` then the `property` value will be set to the one stored in `checkedValue`.

This is needed for cases where the `property` type is not a `boolean`.

### uncheckedValue

-   **Type:** `String`
-   **Required:** `No`

If it is set, the unchecked state will be `property` !== `checkedValue`. When `onChange` is fired with the checked value set to `false` then the `property` value will be set to the one stored in `uncheckedValue`.

This is needed for cases where the `property` type is not a `boolean`.

## Usage

Here's an example on the code that is used for the `sold_individually` field in the Inventory section:

```php
$parent_container->add_block(
  [
    'id'         => 'product-limit-purchase',
    'blockName'  => 'poocommerce/product-checkbox-field',
    'order'      => 20,
    'attributes' => [
      'title'    => __(
        'Restrictions',
        'poocommerce'
      ),
      'label'    => __(
        'Limit purchases to 1 item per order',
        'poocommerce'
      ),
      'property' => 'sold_individually',
      'tooltip'  => __(
        'When checked, customers will be able to purchase only 1 item in a single order. This is particularly useful for items that have limited quantity, like art or handmade goods.',
        'poocommerce'
      ),
    ],
  ]
);
```

---

Here's an example that is used to toggle the product variation `status` from `publish` to `private`:

> In this case the checkbox will be checked when the variation `status === 'private'`, changing the checked state of the checkbox will toggle the `status` value from `private` to `publish` and not from `true` to `false` like in the previous example:

```php
$parent_container->add_block(
  [
    'id'         => 'product-variation-visibility',
    'blockName'  => 'poocommerce/product-checkbox-field',
    'order'      => 30,
    'attributes' => [
      'property' => 'status',
      'label'    => __( 'Hide in product catalog', 'poocommerce' ),
      'checkedValue'  => 'private',
      'uncheckedValue' => 'publish',
    ],
  ]
);
```
